                              C Piscine
                                   C 04




Summary: this document is the subject for the unit C 04 of the C Piscine @ 42.
Contents
I      Instructions                        2

II     Foreword                            4

III    Exercise 00 : ft_strlen             6

IV     Exercise 01 : ft_putstr            7

V      Exercise 02 : ft_putnbr             8

VI     Exercise 03 : ft_atoi               9

VII    Exercise 04 : ft_putnbr_base       10

VIII   Exercise 05 : ft_atoi_base         12




                                      1
Chapter I

Instructions

 • Only this page will serve as reference: do not trust rumors.

 • Watch out! This document could potentially change before submission.

 • Make sure you have the appropriate permissions on your files and directories.

 • You have to follow the submission procedures for all your exercises.

 • Your exercises will be checked and graded by your fellow classmates.

 • On top of that, your exercises will be checked and graded by a program called
   Moulinette.

 • Moulinette is very meticulous and strict in its evaluation of your work. It is entirely
   automated and there is no way to negotiate with it. So if you want to avoid bad
   surprises, be as thorough as possible.

 • Moulinette is not very open-minded. It won’t try and understand your code if it
   doesn’t respect the Norm. Moulinette relies on a program called norminette to
   check if your files respect the norm. TL;DR: it would be idiotic to submit a piece
   of work that doesn’t pass norminette’s check.

 • These exercises are carefully laid out by order of difficulty - from easiest to hardest.
   We will not take into account a successfully completed harder exercise if an easier
   one is not perfectly functional.

 • Using a forbidden function is considered cheating. Cheaters get -42, and this grade
   is non-negotiable.

 • You’ll only have to submit a main() function if we ask for a program.

 • Moulinette compiles with these flags: -Wall -Wextra -Werror, and uses gcc.

 • If your program doesn’t compile, you’ll get 0.

 • You cannot leave any additional file in your directory than those specified in the
   subject.

 • Got a question? Ask your peer on the right. Otherwise, try your peer on the left.


                                           2
C Piscine                                                                          C 04


   • Your reference guide is called Google / man / the Internet / ....

   • Check out the "C Piscine" part of the forum on the intranet, or the slack Piscine.

   • Examine the examples thoroughly. They could very well call for details that are
     not explicitly mentioned in the subject...

   • By Odin, by Thor ! Use your brain !!!




             Norminette must be launched with the -R CheckForbiddenSourceHeader
             flag. Moulinette will use it too.




                                           3
Chapter II

Foreword

Here are the lyrics for City Hunter’s theme song "Moonlight Shadow":

The last time ever she saw him
Carried away by a moonlight shadow
He passed on worried and warning
Carried away by a moonlight shadow.
Lost in a riddle that Saturday night
Far away on the other side.
He was caught in the middle of a desperate fight
And she couldn’t find how to push through

The trees that whisper in the evening
Carried away by a moonlight shadow
Sing a song of sorrow and grieving
Carried away by a moonlight shadow
All she saw was a silhouette of a gun
Far away on the other side.
He was shot six times by a man on the run
And she couldn’t find how to push through

[Chorus]
I stay, I pray
See you in Heaven far away...
I stay, I pray
See you in Heaven one day.

Four A.M. in the morning
Carried away by a moonlight shadow
I watched your vision forming
Carried away by a moonlight shadow
A star was glowing in the silvery night
Far away on the other side
Will you come to talk to me this night
But she couldn’t find how to push through

[Chorus]

                                         4
C Piscine                                                          C 04



Far away on the other side.
Caught in the middle of a hundred and five
The night was heavy and the air was alive
But she couldn’t find how to push through
Carried away by a moonlight shadow
Carried away by a moonlight shadow
Far away on the other side.

   Unfortunately, this topic has nothing to do with City Hunter.




                                         5
Chapter III

Exercise 00 : ft_strlen

                                   Exercise 00

                                    ft_strlen
Turn-in directory : ex00/
Files to turn in : ft_strlen.c
Allowed functions : None




  • Create a function that counts and returns the number of characters in a string.

  • Here’s how it should be prototyped :

  int   ft_strlen(char *str);




                                           6
Chapter IV

Exercise 01 : ft_putstr

                                     Exercise 01

                                      ft_putstr
Turn-in directory : ex01/
Files to turn in : ft_putstr.c
Allowed functions : write




  • Create a function that displays a string of characters on the standard output.

  • Here’s how it should be prototyped :

      void   ft_putstr(char *str);




                                           7
Chapter V

Exercise 02 : ft_putnbr

                                  Exercise 02

                                   ft_putnbr
Turn-in directory : ex02/
Files to turn in : ft_putnbr.c
Allowed functions : write




  • Create a function that displays the number entered as a parameter. The function
    has to be able to display all possible values within an int type variable.

  • Here’s how it should be prototyped :

      void ft_putnbr(int nb);




  • For example:

       ◦ ft_putnbr(42) displays "42".




                                           8
Chapter VI

Exercise 03 : ft_atoi

                                      Exercise 03

                                         ft_atoi
Turn-in directory : ex03/
Files to turn in : ft_atoi.c
Allowed functions : None




  • Write a function that converts the initial portion of the string pointed by str to its int
    representation

  • The string can start with an arbitray amount of white space (as determined by isspace(3))

  • The string can be followed by an arbitrary amount of + and - signs, - sign will change
    the sign of the int returned based on the number of - is odd or even.

  • Finally the string can be followed by any numbers of the base 10.

  • Your function should read the string until the string stop following the rules and return
    the number found until now.

  • You should not take care of overflow or underflow. result can be undefined in that case.

  • Here’s an example of a program that prints the atoi return value:
    $>./a.out "   ---+--+1234ab567"
    -1234


  • Here’s how it should be prototyped :

      int    ft_atoi(char *str);




                                             9
Chapter VII

Exercise 04 : ft_putnbr_base

                                       Exercise 04

                                   ft_putnbr_base
Turn-in directory : ex04/
Files to turn in : ft_putnbr_base.c
Allowed functions : write




  • Create a function that displays a number in a base system in the terminal.

  • This number is given in the shape of an int, and the radix in the shape of a string
    of characters.

  • The base-system contains all useable symbols to display that number :

       ◦ 0123456789 is the commonly used base system to represent decimal numbers
       ◦ 01 is a binary base system ;
       ◦ 0123456789ABCDEF an hexadecimal base system ;
       ◦ poneyvif is an octal base system.

  • The function must handle negative numbers.

  • If there’s an invalid argument, nothing should be displayed. Examples of invalid
    arguments :

       ◦ base is empty or size of 1;
       ◦ base contains the same character twice ;
       ◦ base contains + or - ;

  • Here’s how it should be prototyped :




                                             10
C Piscine                                           C 04




      void   ft_putnbr_base(int nbr, char *base);




                                            11
Chapter VIII

Exercise 05 : ft_atoi_base

                                       Exercise 05

                                       ft_atoi_base
Turn-in directory : ex05/
Files to turn in : ft_atoi_base.c
Allowed functions : None




  • Write a function that converts the initial portion of the string pointed by str to int
    representation.

  • str is in a specific base given as a second parameter.

  • excepted the base rule, the function should work exactly like ft_atoi.

  • If there’s an invalid argument, the function should return 0. Examples of invalid
    arguments :

       ◦ base is empty or size of 1;
       ◦ base contains the same character twice ;
       ◦ base contains + or - or whitespaces;

  • Here’s how it should be prototyped :

      int      ft_atoi_base(char *str, char *base);




                                               12
